Why is a stack a useful data structure and/or when do you think it could be used(i.e. to solve a particular problem or in a specific context)?

We can think of a stack as a list of items which can be altered in the sense of increasing or decreasing the size of the list from the side known as the top. The top of the stack, in a sense, acts as the entry point to the stack in which we can add new items through a process known as 'push' or enqueue, or removing items through a process known as 'pop' or 'dequeue'. This application is often known as Last-In-First-Out (LIFO) principle. A great example of this is a physical stack of books on a desk, in which can we add to the stack by placing books directly on top of each other. In this assignment we implemented a stack using a linked list to demonstrate some of the main benefits of which fall mainly under two categories: (1) Efficiency with memory allocation, (2) flexibility to edit and change the list. 

First, when it comes to memory, we can compare standard arrays and linked lists using the Big(O) notation. Take for example an array which needs a contiguous block of memory to get started, which can sometimes take up unnecessary space. Every time they reach capacity, an array would need to be copied to a new memory location. On the other hand, given that linked lists do not need to be contiguous in memory, they can drow dynamically as needed for the given application. One disadvantage here when it comes to linked lists is that they require each node to store the memory address of the following node, forcing them to store some extra data. Another minor disadvantage is the increased risk of memory leaks and segmentation faults since memory allocation and pointers are being used.

The second advantage, which is tangentially related to memory allocation, is the flexibility of stacks relative to their array counterparts. We can think of arrays is more rigid and unflexible given that their lengths need to be defined ahead of time. Stacks do not need to be defined in size ahead of time, and have the flexibility of being extended or reduced as needed with a given application. However, with this advantage of flexibility, comes a slight disadvantage of access. Given that stacks, or linked lists, are simply a collection of nodes point to each other, they cannot be accessed without iterating over the chain to find the nth item. 
